Box 1, folder 10
William Francis Ainsworth to TJP


My Dear Sir, 
I only received your favour of the 16th late last night, on my return from the Syro-Egyptian, or I would have answered before.  
I shall be very happy to meet Mr Wright at the Archaeological meeting this evening, the meeting of which society indeed, I have attended on the last occasion.  
Believe me, 
My dear sir, 
Yours very sincerely, 
W. Francis Ainsworth
Wednesday Morn
Dec 17th 1845


Box 1, folder 12
John Yonge Akerman to TJP


My dear sir, 
I enclose you the copy of the letter of Nelson of which I spoke.  You may rest assured of its authenticity.
Yours faithfully, 
J.Y. Akerman
S.A.
13. Nov. 1850


My dear sir, 
I send you the required memorandum of the Coins, which I think you will find correct.  The Emperors are not in chronological order, but as I have written on one side of the paper, you can chop it up and arrange it easily.
Very truly yours, 
J.Y. Akerman
S.A. 
7. Mar. 1857.


Box 1, folder 16
Thomas Amyot (proposed TJP as FSA)


Athenaeum, Sunday 
23rd March
My dear Pettigrew,
On coming here, I have found your kind Note with its printed inclosure.  I thank you for both, but I should have been glad to have found you here in person.  I cannot call on you today, but I am desirous to assure you that I fully agree with our friend Mr Henry Ellis, that he & I ought not to mix ourselves up with either of the belligerent parties.  I am constitutionally a man of peace, and if I could assist in restoring that blessing, I would carry an olive branch to each of the Rival Camps, if I did not fear I should be drummed out of both.  I have great respect for Lord Albert Conyngham, and for many of your colleagues, as I also have for many of the staff on the other side.  I certainly shall not join them, but I am desirous that my name should be withdrawn from your committee, highly respectable, as it is, in its composition.  I sincerely hope that archaeological ??? will not interfere with the comforts of our antiquarian club, where I trust the word “archaeology” will not be even whispered.  “Oh no, we never mention it!”, shall at least be my motto there.
With the kindest regard, 
I remain always, 
My dear Pettigrew, 
Yours most sincerely, 
Thomas Amyot
T.J. Pettigrew Esq.


Atheneum, Tuesday
20 August
My dear Pettigrew,
“Yes”, if it must be so.  But I really think you should not stick my name in so prominent a position.  I shall not be able to prepare a Reading, nor probably be able to be in Canterbury more than one day, or two days at most.  Since there are others, Mr James for instance, who would better fill up the printer’s blank with literary & historical name.  My [...] at Somerset House alone gives one anything like a pretence for accepting the elevation you propose.  I presume my learned colleague will prepare a paper on the Battle of Bosworth.  I cannot so further back than the Battle of Antiquaries, when the Besiegers were led on by Sir Harry Nicolas, while I endeavoured to defend the Citadel with our Household Trophy.
Yours ever sincerely, 
Thomas Amyot.


James Street, 
Monday ???
My dear Pettigrew, 
According to Caley’s request, I send you the copy which I received by the two penny post of the Manifesto of the beaten Herschelites.  I am surprised you have not received a presentation copy from the author.  The tone is so temperate, & the whole publication so harmless, that I do not think any answer from you is at all called for.  Pray let me have it again at your leisure, that I may keep with the other controversial effusions occasioned by the Royal nomination.
Yours ever sincerely, 
Thomas Amyot
I have just given an In-patients’ letter to your protégée.  


Athenauem 
Tuesday 24th Augt
My dear Pettigrew,
Write me down an Egyptian.  If I can catch another, you shall book him too.  I hope when you set about filling your list, you will find “corn in Egypt”.  Jon was much pleased with your lecture, but Harry was kept away by an engagement which I was not aware of.  
Yours ever, 
Thomas Amyot
